<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>Publishing Maintenance Working Group Telco &ndash; 07 July 2023</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>&ndash; DRAFT &ndash;<br>
Publishing Maintenance Working Group Telco</h1>
<h2>07 July 2023</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-pm-wg/2023Jul/0000.html"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2023/07/07-pmwg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>avneesh, cristina, dale, dauwhe, duga, gautier, george, gregorio, hadrien, ivan, kristina, laurab, laurent_, MasakazuKitahara, mgarrish, toshiakikoike, tzviya, wendyreid</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>Rick, rickj, Romain, shinya</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>tzviya, wendy</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>gautier</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">EPUB3 in ISO</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Errata discussion</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">TPAC</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x004 class="phone s01"><cite>Date:</cite> 2023-07-07</p>
<p id=x025 class=summary>Introduction of group members.</p>
<p id=x027 class=irc><cite>&lt;tzviya&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>Consortium/<wbr>cepc/</a></p>
<p id=x030 class="phone s02"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> remembering rules.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>EPUB3 in ISO</h3>
<p id=x045 class="phone s03"><cite>tzviya:</cite> first item in the agenda is about ISO for EPUB 3.3.</p>
<p id=x048 class="phone s02"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> we had previous discussions. It looks like we should better get first EU recognition, that would let us some freedom before ISO.</p>
<p id=x049 class="phone s02"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> ISO is using actually epub 3.0.1.</p>
<p id=x053 class="phone s04"><cite>ivan:</cite> i presume we have to do nothing wich is confortable and come back to this issue in half a year when we know where the EU commission goes.</p>
<p id=x056 class="phone s05"><cite>cristinamussinelli:</cite> we had a meeting with the comission 2 days ago. They confirmed it would be better to have the tec spec in EU before ISO. So yes if possible it is better to wait next year.</p>
<p id=x060 class="phone s05"><cite>cristinamussinelli:</cite> are we interested in epub for archive? it looks like there is a missunderstanding.</p>
<p id=x062 class=irc><cite>&lt;Zakim&gt;</cite> tzviya, you wanted to comment on archiving</p>
<p id=x064 class="phone s04"><cite>ivan:</cite> there is an interest, we should look at the subject of epub archive.</p>
<p id=x067 class="phone s03"><cite>tzviya:</cite> we could do that, there is room for collaboration with librarian and archive world.</p>
<p id=x070 class="phone s04"><cite>ivan:</cite> there are examples at w3c of WG working with groups out of W3C.</p>
<p id=x071 class=irc><cite>&lt;AvneeshSingh&gt;</cite> wendyreid: q+</p>
<p id=x072 class="phone s02"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> there will be very few changes, maybe mainly links to ressources outside epub. Our position right now is wait and see.</p>
<p id=x075 class="phone s06"><cite>AvneeshSingh:</cite> an example is the work on metadata, we work on the a11y tf but refer to metadata standardizers outside of w3c.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Errata discussion</h3>
<p id=x080 class=summary><a href="https://github.com/w3c/pm-wg/wiki/Extract-of-the-W3C-Process-Document,-relevant-to-this-WG's-work">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>pm-wg/<wbr>wiki/<wbr>Extract-of-the-W3C-Process-Document,-relevant-to-this-WG's-work</a></p>
<p id=x081 class=summary><a href="https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs/issues?q=is:issue+is:open+label:ErratumRaised">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>epub-specs/<wbr>issues?q=is:issue+is:open+label:ErratumRaised</a></p>
<p id=x082 class="phone s04"><cite>ivan:</cite> i collected part of the process documents in one place. we can adress problems with markup and little changes (class 1 &amp; 2). class 3 (clarifications) can also be adressed, but more complex. class 4 (adding features to the spec) are out of scope for us (for epub spec)... we have to take care of doing proper errata management.</p>
<p id=x083 class=summary><a href="https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs/issues?q=is:issue+is:open+label:Status-Deferred">https://<wbr>github.com/<wbr>w3c/<wbr>epub-specs/<wbr>issues?q=is:issue+is:open+label:Status-Deferred</a></p>
<p id=x084 class="phone s04"><cite>ivan:</cite> i have defined labels on the issu tracker for class 1, 2, 3 and 4.</p>
<p id=x086 class="phone s04"><cite>ivan:</cite> we have issues labeled as deferred, we may define what to do with those. This is the kind of things we should do as a maintenance group...<br>
<span id=x087>â€¦ we have more flexibility with notes.</span></p>
<p id=x090 class="phone s02"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> we have a lot of notes.</p>
<p id=x091 class="phone s02"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> we'll work closely with CG and BG, they are the places for incubation, we do the work of refining once it is incubated.</p>
<p id=x094 class="phone s04"><cite>ivan:</cite> what we have to decide is how we proceed. For example, the 5 ErratumRaised issues, we should do somethings between calls.</p>
<p id=x097 class="phone s02"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> yes, as we meet only monthly we should do most of the work on github</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>TPAC</h3>
<p id=x099 class="phone s06"><cite>AvneeshSingh:</cite> our a11y tf work might come with edition proposals in 2 to 3 months.</p>
<p id=x100 class=irc><cite>&lt;wendyreid&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/2023/09/TPAC/Overview.html">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2023/<wbr>09/<wbr>TPAC/<wbr>Overview.html</a></p>
<p id=x102 class="phone s02"><cite>wendyreid:</cite> we are planning meeting at TPAC but we don't have finished an agenda yet. It will be hybrid. We won't to do incubation stuff, join meeting with others w3c groups.</p>
<p id=x104 class="phone s03"><cite>tzviya:</cite> we hope a draft agenda before august.</p>
<p id=x105 class=irc><cite>&lt;wendyreid&gt;</cite> <a href="https://www.w3.org/2023/09/TPAC/registration.html#inclusion-fund">https://<wbr>www.w3.org/<wbr>2023/<wbr>09/<wbr>TPAC/<wbr>registration.html#inclusion-fund</a></p>
</section>
</main>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 210 (Wed Jan 11 19:21:32 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
